So let's start putting this into Flexbox.
And I'm going to start here with the UL.
The important thing to remember is that
the UL is going to be the parent or
the flex container, right?
So that is the outside box.
All of these allies,
they're children of that UL.
So the LI are flex items, the UL is
the flex container or the parent.
And that's gonna drive a whole
bunch of these properties.
So we'll start here with the UL.
And we'll set it up to display flex.
And immediately that is going to put
all of our boxes here on one line.
Just like that.
And you see here that my box
has some height set to it.
Because I set my ul to have
a height of 500 pixels.
And so there it is.
And now all my boxes are here
all together in one line.
Make note of the fact that
the boxes are of different sizes.
How big are they?
I set a min width of 100 pixels and
I set a height of 100 pixels.
And so the minimum size of these boxes is
going to be 100 pixels by a 100 pixels.
And I did that just so that you would be
able to see this a little bit better.
If you take that out the min width and
the middle height here you'll
see even more strikingly that
these boxes can get quite narrow.
They're as big as they're content by
default if we don't have the min height
and the min width set.
And that is the flexible boxes.
So they gonna try to themselves into
this space as much as possible.
The next thing to look at is flex,
direction.
And this property you may not see us
that much because many people will put
it with flex flow.
But flex direction and flex wrap are the
two that form the flex flow property.
so here we can have a direction of row.
That's what it is by default.
We won't see any change
when I put that in.
We can change that two column.
And everything will stack on top
of each other at that point.
We can also reverse these.
So we could say row reverse, And
we'll wind up going from six to one
instead of from one to six, okay?
Likewise, you can do a column reverse.
Let me reset this just
a regular old row and
then let's look at flex wrap.
This has to do with our boxes.
When the screen gets too long,
what are we going to do to our boxes?
Are we going to cut them off?
Have them extend past
the edge of our container.
Or are we going to wrap
them onto another line.
And so
often this is set to wrap by default.
So you see here I've now wrapped
two boxes on to the next line
because my row gets very long.
You could also set this to wrap reverse
So notice that, this is reordering
things here on the page.
So our first row goes down to the bottom,
five, and
six go more towards
the middle of the screen.
And we can also go to no wrap.
Which is our default value.
No wrap will cram everything
onto the same line.
And as I said, most people will
write this simply as flex flow.
And then you'll have to put in two values,
row wrap.
Generally speaking row wrap is what
you want for responsive design.
>> Why there is a gap between one and
the next row, the first one, the next one?
>> Why is there a gap between the row
one to four and then five and six?
Great question.
That has to do with the next set
of properties that I wanna be
talking about here in just a few moments.
So that has to do with the cross axis.
So remember here, our main axis is
horizontal, the cross axis is vertical.
We haven't started to address
those vertical properties yet.
So that's what's going on there.
>> Is it possible to wrap
a limited number of items.
Like I want to wrap Item number 4,
5, and 6 without increasing or
decreasing the size of item 1, 2, and 3.
>> Just put 4, 5, and
6 on another line and not 1, 2, and 3?
Yeah, potentially that
if you could do that.
You would wind up having to probably
adjust your HTML a little bit.
You put 1, 2, and 3 in a row.
You could put four or
five and six in a row.
That's one way of doing it.
You could set one, two and
three to have a flex spaces,
which I'm gonna get to
here in just a second.
That would add up to 100%.
That would automatically wrap four,
five and six on to the next row.
So there's a couple of
different ways of doing that.
All right, so
before we leave the parent here,
all of you are starting to ask questions
about some of the other situations here.
Let's move on here to
the justification of any sort of
extra space that we have
in between ourselves here.
And to demonstrate that I'm
gonna go back to my LI.
Let me just comment out this
min width here for the moment.
And the height.
So that you can see that
we have a row here.
So we have some extra space
over here on the side.
And so now, let's add to this
our justify hyphen content.
So this has to do with how we're
going to distribute this extra space.
Okay, so if we set our justify
content to flex hyphen, start.
That is the default value,
it'll push all of our boxes over
to the left side of the screen.
Giving us space over on the right
hand side of the screen.
Just like that.
If we go to flex and shockingly,
it's going to push all of our boxes
to the right side of the row.
And give us space on
the left side of the row.
Centers always a good one.
Center we'll put all of our
boxes here in the middle.
Notice that,
in all cases here we haven't actually
put any space in between the boxes.
So that's these next three values
that I'm gonna go through.
And these are the three that
get confused all the time.
So the first one is space around.
So space around says, we are going to,
let's just talk about one and two here.
I am going to put a space here of x.
So the browser has done some math and
it's decided we have so much space.
We have so many boxes.
We're gonna take that space.
And we're gonna put a little bit
of it on each side of the box.
So, this space right here, in between
the border and the edge of box 1,
that space is x.
I don't know what the value is.
It doesn't matter.
The browser did the math for me.
Here now, in between one and
two the space is 2x.
Because I have space on
the right from number one and
space on the left from number two.
So what you wind up having is half the
space on the edge before box number one.
And half the space on the edge
over here after box number six.
And then in between each of these
boxes that is twice the space.
Okay, because you have the two individual
spaces coming together there in
the middle.
So that's what's going
on with space around.
The one I find that's more useful
than that is space between.
Usually your designer friends will
be happier with this as well.
So what this is going to do is it's
basically justifying the boxes.
It pushes Up the box one all
the way to the left edge.
It's going to push box six all
the way over to the right.
And it will evenly justify the space
in between all of the boxes in between.
So that's usually very
helpful to work with.
I find that really great to work with,
particularly when we
get to our grid system.
Which we'll talk about next.
And then the last one here
is a more recent value.
I it's well supported
by browsers right now.
If you wanna use it and
you have to support some older browsers.
You may wanna double check to make sure
it's supported by those older browsers and
that is spaced evenly.
And shockingly,
that puts the same around amount of space
around on between the edge here and
box one.
The same amount of space between
boxes one and two, and so forth.
Just as you would expect for
space evenly all the way across here.
So this is another very useful one.
The designers like because
the spaces are divided up evenly.
Usually space around is the one that
they are not fond of because they
think it looks a little bit awkward.
Let's now get to the cross axis.
So we've talked about all this various
kinds of alignment here on the main axis.
This is all the row and
dealing with the spaces here on the row.
So to go to some of your
questions from earlier,
what about here on this cross axis?
And that's gonna start
here with a line items.
So I'm gonna reset my justify
content here to center.
And then we're gonna add
the property called align items.
And so this is gonna control our
spacing here within the row.
And in fact, I'm gonna bring back
to My min width and my height.
So right now as you see here,
as somebody asked earlier.
We have boxes five and six here wrapped
on to the next line here in the middle.
And this is part of this
align items type of thing.
So here, if we said flex start
Then what we have here are all
of the boxes pressed up
to the top of the area that
we have available here to us.
So what we've got is,
our row is wrapping onto another line.
Everything is centering because
of the justify content of center.
And then everything is pushed up
towards the top because of flex start.
If I set this the flex end,
what's gonna happen?
Yep, It pushes it all the way
down here to the bottom.
So what's happening here,
remember I've got a width and
a height that are set
artificially here on this URL.
So my height is giving me this room that
I can see this whole thing move in space.
So that's gonna push that
down to the bottom there.
We can also say align items in the center.
So the center, center this is what a lot
of people talk about when they talk about
putting something in
the very center of a screen.
Justifying contents that are aligned items
at the center puts everything centered
very nicely inside of that box.
Centered or them row, centered vertically.
That's what's happening there.
We can also say baseline,
all this case just pushed it back
up to the top of the screen and
then stretches the last one.
And that's also doing the same thing here.
Okay, so the last one I want to tell
you about is the Align content.
And this is going to align elements within
the particular space that
we're talking about here.
And I think this goes to the question
that somebody was asking earlier.
Align content,
Center align items,
center and aligned content.
So now if I say flex start.
This pushes everything all the way to
the top without the space in between.
So the person who was asking about
the space in between those elements,
this is how you get rid of
it with this align content.
So everything is pushed up to
the very top of this particular box.
We also have flex end,
which of course pushes
it all the way down to
the bottom of the box and we have center.
So if you wanted everything smushed in
the center, without the big gap in between
those particular rows,
that's what the center is.
So three centers in order
to make that happen,
and we still have all of
the options of the space
Space between, space around,
and space evenly.
So space between pushes these all
the way to the top and bottom of the box.
Space around Gives us as I said before,
X amount of space above and
below 2x in between, and space evenly.
Spaces the mall evenly in space So
we can say that align items
we use in case of columns?
>> Well it depends on main axis and
cross axis.
So in this particular case, yes,
that would be aligned items would be for
the cross axis.
So that would be the columns.
>> I didn't understand the use
of baseline and stretch value.
What exactly can we use it in?
Isn't it similar to the default value?
>> Yes, exactly.
So those are indeed similar
to the default value.
And so those become useful if you
reset them in one part of your layout.
And you wanna change it back
in another part of the layout.
So it's always helpful to
know what those defaults are